Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.A programming language is a formal language, which comprises a set of instructions used to produce various kinds of
output. Programming languages are used in computer programming to create programs that implement specific algorithms.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.The JDK is a software package that contains a variety of tools and utilities that make it possible to develop,
package, monitor and deploy applications that build for any standard Java platform.
It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar),
a documentation generator (javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.
components are:The Runtime Interpreter.
                 The Compiler.
                 The Applet Viewer.
                 The Debugger.
                 The Class File Disassembler.
                 The Header and Stub File Generator.
                 The Documentation Generator.
                 Applet Demos.
What is IDE?
A. Integrated development environment
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
NetBeans.
Eclipse.
IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition.
Android Studio.
Enide Studio 2014.
BlueJ.
jEdit.
jGRASP.


Explain the entire java life cycle.
java sourse code-java compiler -java virtual machine

what is class?

A class is a blueprint of an object

What is object?

an object is an instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?

An application entry point identifies a resource that is an access point
to an application.



Why main is static?

This is neccesary because main() is called by the JVM before any objects are made.
Since it is static it can be directly invoked via the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
The root class of the Java class hierarchy.
All non-primitive types (including arrays) inherit either directly or indirectly from this class.The “Object”
(java.lang.object) class is at the root/base level of the Class hierarchy in Java. Because of this, all Java classes inherit


What is difference between path and classpath variables?.
Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating
system to find the executables. Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes.ie in J2EE we give the path of jar files.


What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class? Interface can have only abstract methods. Abstract class
 can have abstract and non-abstract methods.


Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
No.
what is Access Specifier?

Java Access Specifiers (also known as Visibility Specifiers ) regulate access to classes, fields and methods in Java.
These Specifiers determine whether a field or method in a class, can be used or invoked by another method in another class or sub-class. Access Specifiers can be used to restrict access.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Inheritance
Polymorphism
Interface
Encapsulation

Object Oriented Programming.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related
classes and interfaces.


- java.lang package is imported by default,

What is API?
There are many types of APIs. ... There are further types of Web APIs such as Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP),
 Remote Procedure Call (RPC), and perhaps the most popular—at least in name— Representational State Transfer (REST).
Application Programming Interfaces.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
No. java doesn't support multiple inheritance directly because it leads to overiding of methods when both extended
class have a same method name.

What is method overloading and when it happens?

Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different parameters.
Overriding happens in runtime of method.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
An exception (or exceptional event) is a problem that arises during the execution of a program. When an Exception
occurs the normal flow of the program is disrupted and the program/Application terminates abnormally, which is not
recommended, therefore, these exceptions are to be handled by try catch block.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?

n Java, a static member is a member of a class that isn’t associated with an instance of a class. Instead, the member
belongs to the class itself. As a result, you can access the static member without first creating a class instance.
Static variable in Java is variable
which belongs to the class and initialized only once at the start of the execution.

Static method in Java is a method which belongs to the class and not to the object. A static method can access only
static data.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?

final keyword is used in different contexts. First of all, final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable
, a method or a class.Following are different contexts where final is used. When a variable is declared with final
keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant.
What is final, finally and finalize?

Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed. Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.
What is a constructor ?

Constructor is a block of code that initializes the newly created object. A constructor resembles an instance method in java but it's not a method as it doesn't have a return type. ... Constructor has same name as the class and looks like this in a java code.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Yes
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Default constructor.
What is "this" keyword in java ?

Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object. ... It can be used to refer instance variable of current class. It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor. It can be passed as an argument in the method call.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
It is used inside a sub-class method definition to call a method defined in the super class.
What is JVM stand for ?
Java Virtual Machine
Is JVM platform independent?
Yes

What version of java are you using?
The latest version(s) of Java I am using is listed as Java 8 or java 1.8.0.
What is JAR stand for ?
Java ARchive
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK is Java Development Kit and JVM is Java Virtual Machine.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Java Virtual Machine and Java ARchive
What is compile time and run time?

This compilation process is referred to as compile time. A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. When an application is running, it is called runtime.
What is heap?
a heap is an area of pre-reserved computer main storage ( memory ) that a program process can use to store data in some variable amount that won't be known until the program is running.
How java manage it's memory?
 The JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory (this includes allocating memory from the Operating System (OS), managing Java allocation including heap compaction and removal of garbage objects) and finally provides the runtime environment.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String is immutable, if you try to alter their values, another object gets created, whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable so they can change their values.

The difference between StringBuffer and StringBuilder is that StringBuffer is thread-safe. So when the application needs to be run only in a single thread then it is better to use StringBuilder. StringBuilder is more efficient than StringBuffer.
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









